





[[]{.cart-text} ](#checkout){.btn .cart .open-checkout} [
[]{.btn-text-span .d-none .d-sm-inline-block .d-lg-none
.d-hg-inline-block}](#checkout){.btn .btn-secondary .checkout
.open-checkout}








[](/){.home} / [AntiPatterns](/antipatterns){.type} / [Project
Management
AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-project-management-antipatterns){.type}


# Fire Drill {#fire-drill .title}




### AntiPattern Problem

A Fire Drill is a recurring scenario in many software development
organizations. A project is initiated, but the staff delays design and
development activities for several months while various technopolitical
issues are resolved at a management level. (One software developer
described strategies for on-the-job software delivery as: \"Wait until
management is desperate, and they will accept anything you give them.\")

Management prevents the development staff from making progress either by
telling them to wait or by giving uncertain and conflicting directions.
Perhaps most destructive are the externally generated changes in project
direction that lead to rework and inhibit progress.

<figure class="image">
<img src="/files/sm/images/drill.jpg"
srcset="/files/sm/images/drill.jpg?id=05b9e9d2315e953f909a522fa3214eaa 2x"
width="343" />
</figure>

A few months into the project schedule, it becomes clear to management
that development must progress immediately. Impending project
cancellation is the usual motivator.

This situation is announced at an \"all hands\" Fire Drill launch
meeting for development staff, during which management makes ambitious
(or unrealistic) demands for software delivery. A typical example is a
project that spends six months performing requirements analysis and
planning, and then endeavors to design, implement, and demonstrate the
software in less than four weeks.

Because the entire project is pressed for time, compromises are
willingly made in software quality and testing. In a perverse way, the
emergency situation makes the job easier for some software developers,
as management will accept almost any software (or documentation) product
with few questions if it is behind schedule. However, conscientious
developers who deliver products before their deadlines are often
compelled by management to rework their solutions.

### Refactored Solution

An effective solution that project management can implement is called
*sheltering.* Project management is responsible for delivering a
software product, regardless of the unresolved management-level issues.
The work environment required for quality software development differs
significantly from the Fire Drill environment.

In particular, architecture-driven development requires lengthy time
frames and long-term commitments. Architecture-driven development is the
most effective approach for software success according to Booch (1996)
and other authorities. In contrast, Fire Drill environments preclude
staff retention, an important issue for software managers today.

In the sheltering solution, management creates and maintains two
alternative project environments: internal and external. The majority of
the software development staff operate in the internal environment,
where the focus is long term and encourages continual progress toward
software delivery.

As much as 80 percent of software in systems is not
application-specific---the so-called internal model The internal project
environment can proceed to construct the internal model independent of
changes in external technopolitical issues. Building internal increments
is also the most efficient use of software development resources in
iterative-incremental projects

The external environment is also called the project\'s \"public image.\"
Its purpose is to maintain relationships with outside entities: upper
management, customers, and peer projects (with which resource
competition and reuse opportunities exist).

The external environment staff may need to generate repeated project
crises to obtain essential resources. In a Fire Drill culture, emergency
scenarios may be seen as the equivalent of assertiveness, when projects
compete for management attention and resources. A small number of
managers and development staff can maintain the external environment.

Their job is to address the changes in the external environment so that
the majority of the project staff are sheltered. Some examples of
external environment activities include: progress reports, status
reviews, procurement, staffing, customer presentations, and marketing
demonstrations. Sheltering effectively isolates most staff members from
these activities.

Occasionally, however, emergencies are real, and heroic commitments of
development time and effort may be needed. Nevertheless, it is important
to limit the frequency of Fire Drills so that development staff members
are available to handle the demands of real emergencies.

### Related Solutions

The Fire Drill mini-AntiPattern is related to several other key
AntiPatterns, including: Analysis Paralysis, Viewgraph Engineering, and
Mushroom Management. In Analysis Paralysis, the quest for perfection in
analysis modeling leads to a protracted analysis phase, which compresses
the development schedule, thus creating a Fire Drill.

In Viewgraph Engineering, an organization never makes the transition
from paper-based analysis to software development; the work environment
is very similar to the situation preceding the Fire Drill
launch-meeting. In Mushroom Management, the developers are isolated
unnecessarily from the real end users (not the end-user management).

Developers are unable to obtain clear requirements or feedback on
user-interface capabilities.

The Mushroom Management solution favors constructive interchanges
between operational end users and developers, whereas the Fire Drill
solution favors destructive interchanges between developers and end-user
management, when changes in direction and uncertainties can derail the
software process.







#### Read next

[The Feud []{.fa .fa-arrow-right}](/antipatterns/the-feud){.btn
.btn-primary rel="next"}



#### Return

[[]{.fa .fa-arrow-left} Throw It over the
Wall](/antipatterns/throw-it-over-the-wall){.btn .btn-default
rel="prev"}








[![](/images/content-public/didp-cover-en.png?id=2e1103ea2edb33a8979eebb8e1ba73b6){width="250"
srcset="/images/content-public/didp-cover-en-2x.png?id=0be443437e7b9e0d53cfbeef0092d658 2x"}](/design-patterns-ebook)





[ Dive Into Design Patterns
[new]{style="background-color:red; color:white; padding: 1px 3px; display:inline-block; position: absolute;right: -20px;top: -5px;font-size: 16px;"}](/design-patterns-ebook){.btn
.btn-landing-dp .btn-hg .btn-block .btn-secondary}


Hey, check out our new [ebook on design
patterns](/design-patterns-ebook). The book covers 22 patterns and 8
design principles, all supplied with code examples and illustrations.
Clear, short and fun!

Oh, and it is on sale **right now.**










[![SourceMaking](/images/content-public/logos/logo.png?id=55f0872eb5fd4505a39679db5f702b58){width="250"
height="312"
srcset="/images/content-public/logos/logo-2x.png?id=fee3b4b0a14ba60dc0fe368695d78be9 2x"}](/){.menu-brand}


-   [ Premium Stuff](/store)
    -   [ Dive Into Design Patterns](/design-patterns-ebook)
    -   [ Dive Into Refactoring](/refactoring-course)
    -   [ Computer Science Distilled](/computer-science-distilled)
-   [ Design Patterns](/design_patterns)
    -   [Creational patterns](/design_patterns/creational_patterns)
        -   [Abstract Factory Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/abstract_factory)
        -   [Builder Design Pattern](/design_patterns/builder)
        -   [Factory Method Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/factory_method)
        -   [Object Pool Design Pattern](/design_patterns/object_pool)
        -   [Prototype Design Pattern](/design_patterns/prototype)
        -   [Singleton Design Pattern](/design_patterns/singleton)
    -   [Structural patterns](/design_patterns/structural_patterns)
        -   [Adapter Design Pattern](/design_patterns/adapter)
        -   [Bridge Design Pattern](/design_patterns/bridge)
        -   [Composite Design Pattern](/design_patterns/composite)
        -   [Decorator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/decorator)
        -   [Facade Design Pattern](/design_patterns/facade)
        -   [Flyweight Design Pattern](/design_patterns/flyweight)
        -   [Private Class Data](/design_patterns/private_class_data)
        -   [Proxy Design Pattern](/design_patterns/proxy)
    -   [Behavioral patterns](/design_patterns/behavioral_patterns)
        -   [Chain of
            Responsibility](/design_patterns/chain_of_responsibility)
        -   [Command Design Pattern](/design_patterns/command)
        -   [Interpreter Design Pattern](/design_patterns/interpreter)
        -   [Iterator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/iterator)
        -   [Mediator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/mediator)
        -   [Memento Design Pattern](/design_patterns/memento)
        -   [Null Object Design Pattern](/design_patterns/null_object)
        -   [Observer Design Pattern](/design_patterns/observer)
        -   [State Design Pattern](/design_patterns/state)
        -   [Strategy Design Pattern](/design_patterns/strategy)
        -   [Template Method Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/template_method)
        -   [Visitor Design Pattern](/design_patterns/visitor)
-   [ AntiPatterns](/antipatterns)
    -   [Software Development
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-development-antipatterns)
        -   [The Blob](/antipatterns/the-blob)
        -   [Continuous
            Obsolescence](/antipatterns/continuous-obsolescence)
        -   [Lava Flow](/antipatterns/lava-flow)
        -   [Ambiguous Viewpoint](/antipatterns/ambiguous-viewpoint)
        -   [Functional
            Decomposition](/antipatterns/functional-decomposition)
        -   [Poltergeists](/antipatterns/poltergeists)
        -   [Boat Anchor](/antipatterns/boat-anchor)
        -   [Golden Hammer](/antipatterns/golden-hammer)
        -   [Dead End](/antipatterns/dead-end)
        -   [Spaghetti Code](/antipatterns/spaghetti-code)
        -   [Input Kludge](/antipatterns/input-kludge)
        -   [Walking through a
            Minefield](/antipatterns/walking-through-minefield)
        -   [Cut-And-Paste
            Programming](/antipatterns/cut-and-paste-programming)
        -   [Mushroom Management](/antipatterns/mushroom-management)
    -   [Software Architecture
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-architecture-antipatterns)
        -   [Autogenerated
            Stovepipe](/antipatterns/autogenerated-stovepipe)
        -   [Stovepipe Enterprise](/antipatterns/stovepipe-enterprise)
        -   [Jumble](/antipatterns/jumble)
        -   [Stovepipe System](/antipatterns/stovepipe-system)
        -   [Cover Your Assets](/antipatterns/cover-your-assets)
        -   [Vendor Lock-In](/antipatterns/vendor-lock-in)
        -   [Wolf Ticket](/antipatterns/wolf-ticket)
        -   [Architecture By
            Implication](/antipatterns/architecture-by-implication)
        -   [Warm Bodies](/antipatterns/warm-bodies)
        -   [Design By Committee](/antipatterns/design-by-committee)
        -   [Swiss Army Knife](/antipatterns/swiss-army-knife)
        -   [Reinvent The Wheel](/antipatterns/reinvent-the-wheel)
        -   [The Grand Old Duke of
            York](/antipatterns/the-grand-old-duke-of-york)
    -   [Project Management
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-project-management-antipatterns)
        -   [Blowhard Jamboree](/antipatterns/blowhard-jamboree)
        -   [Analysis Paralysis](/antipatterns/analysis-paralysis)
        -   [Viewgraph Engineering](/antipatterns/viewgraph-engineering)
        -   [Death By Planning](/antipatterns/death-by-planning)
        -   [Fear of Success](/antipatterns/fear-of-success)
        -   [Corncob](/antipatterns/corncob)
        -   [Intellectual Violence](/antipatterns/intellectual-violence)
        -   [Irrational Management](/antipatterns/irrational-management)
        -   [Smoke and Mirrors](/antipatterns/smoke-and-mirrors)
        -   [Project Mismanagement](/antipatterns/project-mismanagement)
        -   [Throw It over the
            Wall](/antipatterns/throw-it-over-the-wall)
        -   [Fire Drill](/antipatterns/fire-drill)
        -   [The Feud](/antipatterns/the-feud)
        -   [E-mail Is Dangerous](/antipatterns/e-mail-is-dangerous)
-   [ Refactoring](/refactoring)
    -   [Code Smells](/refactoring/smells)
        -   [Bloaters](/refactoring/smells/bloaters)
            -   [Long Method](/refactoring/smells/long-method)
            -   [Large Class](/refactoring/smells/large-class)
            -   [Primitive
                Obsession](/refactoring/smells/primitive-obsession)
            -   [Long Parameter
                List](/refactoring/smells/long-parameter-list)
            -   [Data Clumps](/refactoring/smells/data-clumps)
        -   [Object-Orientation Abusers](/refactoring/smells/oo-abusers)
            -   [Switch
                Statements](/refactoring/smells/switch-statements)
            -   [Temporary Field](/refactoring/smells/temporary-field)
            -   [Refused Bequest](/refactoring/smells/refused-bequest)
            -   [Alternative Classes with Different
                Interfaces](/refactoring/smells/alternative-classes-with-different-interfaces)
        -   [Change Preventers](/refactoring/smells/change-preventers)
            -   [Divergent Change](/refactoring/smells/divergent-change)
            -   [Shotgun Surgery](/refactoring/smells/shotgun-surgery)
            -   [Parallel Inheritance
                Hierarchies](/refactoring/smells/parallel-inheritance-hierarchies)
        -   [Dispensables](/refactoring/smells/dispensables)
            -   [Comments](/refactoring/smells/comments)
            -   [Duplicate Code](/refactoring/smells/duplicate-code)
            -   [Lazy Class](/refactoring/smells/lazy-class)
            -   [Data Class](/refactoring/smells/data-class)
            -   [Dead Code](/refactoring/smells/dead-code)
            -   [Speculative
                Generality](/refactoring/smells/speculative-generality)
        -   [Couplers](/refactoring/smells/couplers)
            -   [Feature Envy](/refactoring/smells/feature-envy)
            -   [Inappropriate
                Intimacy](/refactoring/smells/inappropriate-intimacy)
            -   [Message Chains](/refactoring/smells/message-chains)
            -   [Middle Man](/refactoring/smells/middle-man)
        -   [Other Smells](/refactoring/smells/other)
            -   [Incomplete Library
                Class](/refactoring/smells/incomplete-library-class)
    -   [Refactoring techniques](/refactoring/refactorings)
        -   [Composing Methods](/refactoring/composing-methods)
            -   [Extract Method](/refactoring/extract-method)
            -   [Inline Method](/refactoring/inline-method)
            -   [Extract Variable](/refactoring/extract-variable)
            -   [Inline Temp](/refactoring/inline-temp)
            -   [Replace Temp with
                Query](/refactoring/replace-temp-with-query)
            -   [Split Temporary
                Variable](/refactoring/split-temporary-variable)
            -   [Remove Assignments to
                Parameters](/refactoring/remove-assignments-to-parameters)
            -   [Replace Method with Method
                Object](/refactoring/replace-method-with-method-object)
            -   [Substitute
                Algorithm](/refactoring/substitute-algorithm)
        -   [Moving Features between
            Objects](/refactoring/moving-features-between-objects)
            -   [Move Method](/refactoring/move-method)
            -   [Move Field](/refactoring/move-field)
            -   [Extract Class](/refactoring/extract-class)
            -   [Inline Class](/refactoring/inline-class)
            -   [Hide Delegate](/refactoring/hide-delegate)
            -   [Remove Middle Man](/refactoring/remove-middle-man)
            -   [Introduce Foreign
                Method](/refactoring/introduce-foreign-method)
            -   [Introduce Local
                Extension](/refactoring/introduce-local-extension)
        -   [Organizing Data](/refactoring/organizing-data)
            -   [Self Encapsulate
                Field](/refactoring/self-encapsulate-field)
            -   [Replace Data Value with
                Object](/refactoring/replace-data-value-with-object)
            -   [Change Value to
                Reference](/refactoring/change-value-to-reference)
            -   [Change Reference to
                Value](/refactoring/change-reference-to-value)
            -   [Replace Array with
                Object](/refactoring/replace-array-with-object)
            -   [Duplicate Observed
                Data](/refactoring/duplicate-observed-data)
            -   [Change Unidirectional Association to
                Bidirectional](/refactoring/change-unidirectional-association-to-bidirectional)
            -   [Change Bidirectional Association to
                Unidirectional](/refactoring/change-bidirectional-association-to-unidirectional)
            -   [Replace Magic Number with Symbolic
                Constant](/refactoring/replace-magic-number-with-symbolic-constant)
            -   [Encapsulate Field](/refactoring/encapsulate-field)
            -   [Encapsulate
                Collection](/refactoring/encapsulate-collection)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                Class](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-class)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                Subclasses](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-subclasses)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                State/Strategy](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-state-strategy)
            -   [Replace Subclass with
                Fields](/refactoring/replace-subclass-with-fields)
        -   [Simplifying Conditional
            Expressions](/refactoring/simplifying-conditional-expressions)
            -   [Decompose
                Conditional](/refactoring/decompose-conditional)
            -   [Consolidate Conditional
                Expression](/refactoring/consolidate-conditional-expression)
            -   [Consolidate Duplicate Conditional
                Fragments](/refactoring/consolidate-duplicate-conditional-fragments)
            -   [Remove Control Flag](/refactoring/remove-control-flag)
            -   [Replace Nested Conditional with Guard
                Clauses](/refactoring/replace-nested-conditional-with-guard-clauses)
            -   [Replace Conditional with
                Polymorphism](/refactoring/replace-conditional-with-polymorphism)
            -   [Introduce Null
                Object](/refactoring/introduce-null-object)
            -   [Introduce Assertion](/refactoring/introduce-assertion)
        -   [Simplifying Method
            Calls](/refactoring/simplifying-method-calls)
            -   [Rename Method](/refactoring/rename-method)
            -   [Add Parameter](/refactoring/add-parameter)
            -   [Remove Parameter](/refactoring/remove-parameter)
            -   [Separate Query from
                Modifier](/refactoring/separate-query-from-modifier)
            -   [Parameterize Method](/refactoring/parameterize-method)
            -   [Replace Parameter with Explicit
                Methods](/refactoring/replace-parameter-with-explicit-methods)
            -   [Preserve Whole
                Object](/refactoring/preserve-whole-object)
            -   [Replace Parameter with Method
                Call](/refactoring/replace-parameter-with-method-call)
            -   [Introduce Parameter
                Object](/refactoring/introduce-parameter-object)
            -   [Remove Setting
                Method](/refactoring/remove-setting-method)
            -   [Hide Method](/refactoring/hide-method)
            -   [Replace Constructor with Factory
                Method](/refactoring/replace-constructor-with-factory-method)
            -   [Replace Error Code with
                Exception](/refactoring/replace-error-code-with-exception)
            -   [Replace Exception with
                Test](/refactoring/replace-exception-with-test)
        -   [Dealing with
            Generalisation](/refactoring/dealing-with-generalisation)
            -   [Pull Up Field](/refactoring/pull-up-field)
            -   [Pull Up Method](/refactoring/pull-up-method)
            -   [Pull Up Constructor
                Body](/refactoring/pull-up-constructor-body)
            -   [Push Down Method](/refactoring/push-down-method)
            -   [Push Down Field](/refactoring/push-down-field)
            -   [Extract Subclass](/refactoring/extract-subclass)
            -   [Extract Superclass](/refactoring/extract-superclass)
            -   [Extract Interface](/refactoring/extract-interface)
            -   [Collapse Hierarchy](/refactoring/collapse-hierarchy)
            -   [Form Template
                Method](/refactoring/form-template-method)
            -   [Replace Inheritance with
                Delegation](/refactoring/replace-inheritance-with-delegation)
            -   [Replace Delegation with
                Inheritance](/refactoring/replace-delegation-with-inheritance)
-   [ UML](/uml)
    -   [Introduction](/uml/introduction)
    -   [Basic Principles and Background](/uml/basic-principles)
        -   [Introduction to the Case
            Study](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/introduction-to-the-case-study)
        -   [Models, Views, and
            Diagrams](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/models-views-and-diagrams)
        -   [Information Systems and IT
            Systems](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/information-systems-and-it-systems)
        -   [The Models of our Case
            Study](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/the-models-of-our-case-study)
        -   [History of UML: Methods and
            Notations](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/history-of-uml-methods-and-notations)
        -   [Requirement
            Specification](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/requirement-specification)
        -   [UML 2.0](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/uml2)
    -   [Modeling Business Systems](/uml/modeling-business-systems)
        -   [Business Processes and Business
            Systems](/uml/modeling-business-systems/business-processes-and-business-systems)
        -   [One Model---Two
            Views](/uml/modeling-business-systems/one-model-two-views)
        -   [External
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view)
        -   [The Elements of a
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/the-elements-of-view)
        -   [Use Case
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/use-case-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Use Case
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-use-case-diagrams)
        -   [Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/activity-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-activity-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/sequence-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-sequence-diagrams)
        -   [High-Level Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/high-level-sequence-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence Diagrams for Scenarios of Business Use
            Cases](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/sequence-diagrams-for-scenarios-of-business-use-cases)
        -   [Internal
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/the-internal-view)
        -   [Package
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/package-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Package
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/constructing-package-diagrams)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [Activity
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/activity-diagram)
    -   [Modeling IT Systems](/uml/modeling-it-systems)
        -   [External View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view)
        -   [The User View or \"I don\'t care how it works, as long as
            it
            works.\"](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-user-view-or-i-dont-care-how-it-works-as-long-as-it-works)
        -   [The Elements of a
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-elements-of-view)
        -   [Use Case
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-elements-of-view/use-case-diagram)
        -   [Query Events and Mutation
            Events](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/query-events-and-mutation-events)
        -   [Use Case Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/use-case-sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing the External
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/constructing-the-external-view)
        -   [Structural View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view)
        -   [Objects and
            Classes](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/objects-and-classes)
        -   [Generalization, Specialization, and
            Inheritance](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/generalization-specialization-and-inheritance)
        -   [Static and Dynamic Business
            Rules](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/static-and-dynamic-business-rules)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [The Behavioral
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view)
        -   [The Life of an
            Object](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/the-life-of-an-object)
        -   [The Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/the-elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Statechart
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/statechart-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Statechart
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/constructing-statechart-diagrams)
        -   [Interaction
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view)
        -   [Seeing What Happens Inside the IT
            System](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/seeing-what-happens-inside-the-it-system)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Communication
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/communication-diagram)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Communication
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/constructing-communication-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/constructing-sequence-diagrams)
    -   [Modeling for System
        Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration)
        -   [Terminology of System
            Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/terminology-of-system-integration)
        -   [Messages in
            UML](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/messages-in-uml)
        -   [One Model---Two
            Views](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/one-model-two-views)
        -   [Process
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view)
        -   [The Business System Model as
            Foundation](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/the-business-system-model-as-foundation)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/activity-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Diagrams in the Process
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/constructing-diagrams-in-the-process-view)
        -   [The Static
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [Transforming Data from the IT System to the Message
            \"passenger
            list\"](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/transforming-data-from-the-it-system-to-the-mess)
        -   [Transformation of UML Messages into Various Standard
            Formats](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/transformation-of-uml-messages-into-various-stan)



[ Log in](https://sourcemaking.com/login "Log in") [ Contact
us](https://feedback.sourcemaking.com/ "Contact us"){.userecho-public
rel="nofollow"}





[![SourceMaking](/images/content-public/logos/logo-min-xs.png?id=f4a48661fc32a3f349b76a075f28594c){srcset="/images/content-public/logos/logo-min-xs-2x.png?id=34fc05750336c33b7815e231a0f227df 2x"}](/){.navigation-brand}


[![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
Shop Now!](/store){.btn .btn-md .btn-primary .btn-featured}


-   [ [Contact us]{.caption .d-none
    .d-xl-inline-block}](https://feedback.sourcemaking.com/?show_feedback_form_private=true "Contact us"){.userecho-private
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [ [Log in]{.caption .d-none
    .d-xl-inline-block}](https://sourcemaking.com/login "Log in")
-   






-   [Design Patterns](/design_patterns)
-   [AntiPatterns](/antipatterns)
-   [Refactoring](/refactoring)
-   [UML](/uml)



-   [My account](/home)
-   [Forum](https://sourcemaking.userecho.com/){.userecho-public
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [Contact
    us](https://sourcemaking.userecho.com/?show_feedback_form_private=true){.userecho-private
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [About us](/about-us)










© 2007-2023 [SourceMaking.com](/)[ / ]{.d-none .d-md-inline}\
All rights reserved.



[Terms](/terms) / [Privacy policy](/privacy-policy)






