# Ambiguous Viewpoint {#ambiguous-viewpoint .title}

### AntiPattern Problem

Object-oriented analysis and design (OOA&D) models are often presented
without clarifying the viewpoint represented by the model. By default,
OOA&D models denote an implementation viewpoint that is potentially the
least useful. Mixed viewpoints don\'t allow the fundamental separation
of interfaces from implementation details, which are one of the primary
benefits of the object-oriented paradigm.

<figure class="image">
<img src="/files/sm/images/arrows.jpg"
srcset="/files/sm/images/arrows.jpg?id=e332851e4e91435deabebbf32926a98d 2x"
width="462" alt="Ambiguous Viewpoint" />
</figure>

### Refactored Solution

There are three fundamental viewpoints for OOA&D models: the business
viewpoint, the specification viewpoint, and the implementation
viewpoint. The business viewpoint defines the user\'s model of the
information and processes. This is a model that domain experts can
defend and explain (commonly called an analysis model). Analysis models
are some of the most stable models of the information system and are
worthwhile to maintain.

Models can be less useful if they don\'t focus on the required
perspective(s). A perspective applies filters to the information. For
example, defining a class model for a telephone exchange system will
vary significantly depending upon the focus provided by the following
perspectives:

- Telephone user, who cares about the ease of making calls and
    receiving itemized bills.
- Telephone operator, who cares about connecting users to required
    numbers.
- Telephone accounting department, which cares about the formulae for
    billing and records of all calls made by users.

Some of the same classes will be identified, but not many; where there
are, the methods will not be the same.

The specification viewpoint focuses on software interfaces. Because
objects (as abstract data types) are intended to hide implementation
details behind interfaces, the specification viewpoint defines the
exposed abstractions and behaviors in the object system. The
specification viewpoint defines the software boundaries between objects
in the system.

The implementation viewpoint defines the internal details of the
objects. Implementation models are often called design models in
practice. To be an accurate model of the software, design models must be
maintained continuously as the software is developed and modified. Since
an out-of-date model is useless, only selected design models are
pertinent to maintain; in particular, those design models that depict
complex aspects of the system.
