





[[]{.cart-text} ](#checkout){.btn .cart .open-checkout} [
[]{.btn-text-span .d-none .d-sm-inline-block .d-lg-none
.d-hg-inline-block}](#checkout){.btn .btn-secondary .checkout
.open-checkout}








[](/){.home} / [AntiPatterns](/antipatterns){.type} / [Software
Development
AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-development-antipatterns){.type}


# Walking through a Minefield {#walking-through-a-minefield .title}




### AntiPattern Problem

Using today\'s software technology is analogous to walking through a
high-technology mine field. This mini-AntiPattern is also known as
Nothing Works or Do You Believe in Magic?

Numerous bugs occur in released software products; in fact, experts
estimate that original source code contains two to five bugs per line of
code. This means that the code will require two or more changes per line
to remove all defects. Without question, many products are released well
before they are ready to support operational systems. A knowledgeable
software engineer states that, \"There are no real systems, not even
ours.\"

<figure class="image">
<img src="/files/sm/images/antipatterns/img_37.jpg"
srcset="/files/sm/images/antipatterns/img_37.jpg 2x" width="325" />
</figure>

The location and consequences of software defects are unrelated to their
apparent causes, and even a minor bug can be catastrophic. For example,
operating systems (UNIX, Windows, etc.) contain many known and unknown
security defects that make them vulnerable to attack; furthermore, the
Internet has dramatically increased the likelihood of system attack.

End users encounter software bugs frequently. For example, approximately
one in seven correctly dialed telephone numbers is not completed by the
telephone system (a software-intensive application). And note, the rate
of complaint is low compared to the frequency of software failures.

The purpose of commercial software testing is to limit risk, in
particular, support costs For shrink-wrapped software products, each
time an end user contacts a vendor for technical support, most or all of
the profit margin is spent answering the call.

With simpler systems of the past, we were lucky. When a software bug
occurred, the likely outcome was that nothing happened. With today\'s
systems, including computer-controlled passenger trains and spacecraft
control systems, the outcome of a bug can be catastrophic. Already,
there have been half a dozen major software failures where financial
losses exceeded \$100 million.

### Refactored Solution

Proper investment in software testing is required to make systems
relatively bug-free. In some progressive companies, the size of testing
staff exceeds programming staff The most important change to make to
testing procedures is configuration control of test cases.

A typical system can require five times as much test-case software as
production software. Test software is often more complex than production
software because it involves the explicit management of execution timing
to detect many bugs.

When test software detects a bug, it is more likely to be the result of
a bug in the test than in the code being tested. Configuration control
enables the management of test software assets; for example, to support
regression testing.

Other effective approaches for testing include automation of test
execution and test design. Manual test execution is labor-intensive, and
there is no proven basis for the effectiveness of manual testing.

In contrast, automatic test execution enables running tests in concert
with the build cycle. Regression tests can be executed without manual
intervention, ensuring that software modifications do not cause defects
in previously tested behaviors. Test design automation supports the
generation of rigorous test suites, and dozens of good tools are
available to support test design automation.

### Variations

Formal verification is used in a number of applications to ensure an
error-free design Formal verification involves prov-ing (in a
mathematical sense) the satisfaction of requirements. Unfortunately,
computer scientists trained to perform this form of analysis are
relatively rare. In addition, the results of formal analysis are
expensive to generate and may be subjective. Consequently, in general,
we do not recommend this approach as feasible for most organizations.

Software inspection is an alternative approach that has been shown to be
effective in a wide range of organizations Software inspection is a
formal process for review of code and documentation products.

It involves careful review of software documentation in search of
defects; for example, it is recommended that each inspector search for
approximately 45 minutes per page of documentation. The defects
discovered by multiple inspectors are then listed during an inspection
logging meeting.

The document editor can remove defects for subsequent review by the
inspection team. Quality criteria are established for initial acceptance
of the document by the inspection team and completion of the inspection
process. Software inspection is a particularly useful process because it
can be applied at any phase of development, from the writing of initial
requirements documents through coding.

### Background

\"Do you believe in magic?\" is a question sometimes posed by savvy
computer professionals. If you believe that today\'s software systems
are robust, you certainly do believe in magic.

The reality of today\'s software technology is analogous to an
intriguing short story in Stephen Gaskin\'s *Mind at Play* In the story,
people are driving shiny new cars and living comfortable lives. However,
there is one man who wants to see the world as it really exists. He
approaches an authority figure who can remove all illusions from his
perception.

Then, when he looks at the world, he sees people walking in the streets
pretending to be driving fancy cars. In other words, the luxurious
lifestyles were phony. In the end, the man recants, and asks to be
returned to his prior state of disillusionment.

In one view, today\'s technology is very much like the Gaskin story. It
is easy to believe that we are using mature software technologies on
powerful, robust platforms. In fact, this is an illusion; software bugs
are pervasive, and there are no robust platforms underneath.







#### Read next

[Cut-And-Paste Programming []{.fa
.fa-arrow-right}](/antipatterns/cut-and-paste-programming){.btn
.btn-primary rel="next"}



#### Return

[[]{.fa .fa-arrow-left} Input Kludge](/antipatterns/input-kludge){.btn
.btn-default rel="prev"}








[![](/images/content-public/didp-cover-en.png?id=2e1103ea2edb33a8979eebb8e1ba73b6){width="250"
srcset="/images/content-public/didp-cover-en-2x.png?id=0be443437e7b9e0d53cfbeef0092d658 2x"}](/design-patterns-ebook)





[ Dive Into Design Patterns
[new]{style="background-color:red; color:white; padding: 1px 3px; display:inline-block; position: absolute;right: -20px;top: -5px;font-size: 16px;"}](/design-patterns-ebook){.btn
.btn-landing-dp .btn-hg .btn-block .btn-secondary}


Hey, check out our new [ebook on design
patterns](/design-patterns-ebook). The book covers 22 patterns and 8
design principles, all supplied with code examples and illustrations.
Clear, short and fun!

Oh, and it is on sale **right now.**










[![SourceMaking](/images/content-public/logos/logo.png?id=55f0872eb5fd4505a39679db5f702b58){width="250"
height="312"
srcset="/images/content-public/logos/logo-2x.png?id=fee3b4b0a14ba60dc0fe368695d78be9 2x"}](/){.menu-brand}


-   [ Premium Stuff](/store)
    -   [ Dive Into Design Patterns](/design-patterns-ebook)
    -   [ Dive Into Refactoring](/refactoring-course)
    -   [ Computer Science Distilled](/computer-science-distilled)
-   [ Design Patterns](/design_patterns)
    -   [Creational patterns](/design_patterns/creational_patterns)
        -   [Abstract Factory Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/abstract_factory)
        -   [Builder Design Pattern](/design_patterns/builder)
        -   [Factory Method Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/factory_method)
        -   [Object Pool Design Pattern](/design_patterns/object_pool)
        -   [Prototype Design Pattern](/design_patterns/prototype)
        -   [Singleton Design Pattern](/design_patterns/singleton)
    -   [Structural patterns](/design_patterns/structural_patterns)
        -   [Adapter Design Pattern](/design_patterns/adapter)
        -   [Bridge Design Pattern](/design_patterns/bridge)
        -   [Composite Design Pattern](/design_patterns/composite)
        -   [Decorator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/decorator)
        -   [Facade Design Pattern](/design_patterns/facade)
        -   [Flyweight Design Pattern](/design_patterns/flyweight)
        -   [Private Class Data](/design_patterns/private_class_data)
        -   [Proxy Design Pattern](/design_patterns/proxy)
    -   [Behavioral patterns](/design_patterns/behavioral_patterns)
        -   [Chain of
            Responsibility](/design_patterns/chain_of_responsibility)
        -   [Command Design Pattern](/design_patterns/command)
        -   [Interpreter Design Pattern](/design_patterns/interpreter)
        -   [Iterator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/iterator)
        -   [Mediator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/mediator)
        -   [Memento Design Pattern](/design_patterns/memento)
        -   [Null Object Design Pattern](/design_patterns/null_object)
        -   [Observer Design Pattern](/design_patterns/observer)
        -   [State Design Pattern](/design_patterns/state)
        -   [Strategy Design Pattern](/design_patterns/strategy)
        -   [Template Method Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/template_method)
        -   [Visitor Design Pattern](/design_patterns/visitor)
-   [ AntiPatterns](/antipatterns)
    -   [Software Development
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-development-antipatterns)
        -   [The Blob](/antipatterns/the-blob)
        -   [Continuous
            Obsolescence](/antipatterns/continuous-obsolescence)
        -   [Lava Flow](/antipatterns/lava-flow)
        -   [Ambiguous Viewpoint](/antipatterns/ambiguous-viewpoint)
        -   [Functional
            Decomposition](/antipatterns/functional-decomposition)
        -   [Poltergeists](/antipatterns/poltergeists)
        -   [Boat Anchor](/antipatterns/boat-anchor)
        -   [Golden Hammer](/antipatterns/golden-hammer)
        -   [Dead End](/antipatterns/dead-end)
        -   [Spaghetti Code](/antipatterns/spaghetti-code)
        -   [Input Kludge](/antipatterns/input-kludge)
        -   [Walking through a
            Minefield](/antipatterns/walking-through-minefield)
        -   [Cut-And-Paste
            Programming](/antipatterns/cut-and-paste-programming)
        -   [Mushroom Management](/antipatterns/mushroom-management)
    -   [Software Architecture
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-architecture-antipatterns)
        -   [Autogenerated
            Stovepipe](/antipatterns/autogenerated-stovepipe)
        -   [Stovepipe Enterprise](/antipatterns/stovepipe-enterprise)
        -   [Jumble](/antipatterns/jumble)
        -   [Stovepipe System](/antipatterns/stovepipe-system)
        -   [Cover Your Assets](/antipatterns/cover-your-assets)
        -   [Vendor Lock-In](/antipatterns/vendor-lock-in)
        -   [Wolf Ticket](/antipatterns/wolf-ticket)
        -   [Architecture By
            Implication](/antipatterns/architecture-by-implication)
        -   [Warm Bodies](/antipatterns/warm-bodies)
        -   [Design By Committee](/antipatterns/design-by-committee)
        -   [Swiss Army Knife](/antipatterns/swiss-army-knife)
        -   [Reinvent The Wheel](/antipatterns/reinvent-the-wheel)
        -   [The Grand Old Duke of
            York](/antipatterns/the-grand-old-duke-of-york)
    -   [Project Management
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-project-management-antipatterns)
        -   [Blowhard Jamboree](/antipatterns/blowhard-jamboree)
        -   [Analysis Paralysis](/antipatterns/analysis-paralysis)
        -   [Viewgraph Engineering](/antipatterns/viewgraph-engineering)
        -   [Death By Planning](/antipatterns/death-by-planning)
        -   [Fear of Success](/antipatterns/fear-of-success)
        -   [Corncob](/antipatterns/corncob)
        -   [Intellectual Violence](/antipatterns/intellectual-violence)
        -   [Irrational Management](/antipatterns/irrational-management)
        -   [Smoke and Mirrors](/antipatterns/smoke-and-mirrors)
        -   [Project Mismanagement](/antipatterns/project-mismanagement)
        -   [Throw It over the
            Wall](/antipatterns/throw-it-over-the-wall)
        -   [Fire Drill](/antipatterns/fire-drill)
        -   [The Feud](/antipatterns/the-feud)
        -   [E-mail Is Dangerous](/antipatterns/e-mail-is-dangerous)
-   [ Refactoring](/refactoring)
    -   [Code Smells](/refactoring/smells)
        -   [Bloaters](/refactoring/smells/bloaters)
            -   [Long Method](/refactoring/smells/long-method)
            -   [Large Class](/refactoring/smells/large-class)
            -   [Primitive
                Obsession](/refactoring/smells/primitive-obsession)
            -   [Long Parameter
                List](/refactoring/smells/long-parameter-list)
            -   [Data Clumps](/refactoring/smells/data-clumps)
        -   [Object-Orientation Abusers](/refactoring/smells/oo-abusers)
            -   [Switch
                Statements](/refactoring/smells/switch-statements)
            -   [Temporary Field](/refactoring/smells/temporary-field)
            -   [Refused Bequest](/refactoring/smells/refused-bequest)
            -   [Alternative Classes with Different
                Interfaces](/refactoring/smells/alternative-classes-with-different-interfaces)
        -   [Change Preventers](/refactoring/smells/change-preventers)
            -   [Divergent Change](/refactoring/smells/divergent-change)
            -   [Shotgun Surgery](/refactoring/smells/shotgun-surgery)
            -   [Parallel Inheritance
                Hierarchies](/refactoring/smells/parallel-inheritance-hierarchies)
        -   [Dispensables](/refactoring/smells/dispensables)
            -   [Comments](/refactoring/smells/comments)
            -   [Duplicate Code](/refactoring/smells/duplicate-code)
            -   [Lazy Class](/refactoring/smells/lazy-class)
            -   [Data Class](/refactoring/smells/data-class)
            -   [Dead Code](/refactoring/smells/dead-code)
            -   [Speculative
                Generality](/refactoring/smells/speculative-generality)
        -   [Couplers](/refactoring/smells/couplers)
            -   [Feature Envy](/refactoring/smells/feature-envy)
            -   [Inappropriate
                Intimacy](/refactoring/smells/inappropriate-intimacy)
            -   [Message Chains](/refactoring/smells/message-chains)
            -   [Middle Man](/refactoring/smells/middle-man)
        -   [Other Smells](/refactoring/smells/other)
            -   [Incomplete Library
                Class](/refactoring/smells/incomplete-library-class)
    -   [Refactoring techniques](/refactoring/refactorings)
        -   [Composing Methods](/refactoring/composing-methods)
            -   [Extract Method](/refactoring/extract-method)
            -   [Inline Method](/refactoring/inline-method)
            -   [Extract Variable](/refactoring/extract-variable)
            -   [Inline Temp](/refactoring/inline-temp)
            -   [Replace Temp with
                Query](/refactoring/replace-temp-with-query)
            -   [Split Temporary
                Variable](/refactoring/split-temporary-variable)
            -   [Remove Assignments to
                Parameters](/refactoring/remove-assignments-to-parameters)
            -   [Replace Method with Method
                Object](/refactoring/replace-method-with-method-object)
            -   [Substitute
                Algorithm](/refactoring/substitute-algorithm)
        -   [Moving Features between
            Objects](/refactoring/moving-features-between-objects)
            -   [Move Method](/refactoring/move-method)
            -   [Move Field](/refactoring/move-field)
            -   [Extract Class](/refactoring/extract-class)
            -   [Inline Class](/refactoring/inline-class)
            -   [Hide Delegate](/refactoring/hide-delegate)
            -   [Remove Middle Man](/refactoring/remove-middle-man)
            -   [Introduce Foreign
                Method](/refactoring/introduce-foreign-method)
            -   [Introduce Local
                Extension](/refactoring/introduce-local-extension)
        -   [Organizing Data](/refactoring/organizing-data)
            -   [Self Encapsulate
                Field](/refactoring/self-encapsulate-field)
            -   [Replace Data Value with
                Object](/refactoring/replace-data-value-with-object)
            -   [Change Value to
                Reference](/refactoring/change-value-to-reference)
            -   [Change Reference to
                Value](/refactoring/change-reference-to-value)
            -   [Replace Array with
                Object](/refactoring/replace-array-with-object)
            -   [Duplicate Observed
                Data](/refactoring/duplicate-observed-data)
            -   [Change Unidirectional Association to
                Bidirectional](/refactoring/change-unidirectional-association-to-bidirectional)
            -   [Change Bidirectional Association to
                Unidirectional](/refactoring/change-bidirectional-association-to-unidirectional)
            -   [Replace Magic Number with Symbolic
                Constant](/refactoring/replace-magic-number-with-symbolic-constant)
            -   [Encapsulate Field](/refactoring/encapsulate-field)
            -   [Encapsulate
                Collection](/refactoring/encapsulate-collection)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                Class](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-class)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                Subclasses](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-subclasses)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                State/Strategy](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-state-strategy)
            -   [Replace Subclass with
                Fields](/refactoring/replace-subclass-with-fields)
        -   [Simplifying Conditional
            Expressions](/refactoring/simplifying-conditional-expressions)
            -   [Decompose
                Conditional](/refactoring/decompose-conditional)
            -   [Consolidate Conditional
                Expression](/refactoring/consolidate-conditional-expression)
            -   [Consolidate Duplicate Conditional
                Fragments](/refactoring/consolidate-duplicate-conditional-fragments)
            -   [Remove Control Flag](/refactoring/remove-control-flag)
            -   [Replace Nested Conditional with Guard
                Clauses](/refactoring/replace-nested-conditional-with-guard-clauses)
            -   [Replace Conditional with
                Polymorphism](/refactoring/replace-conditional-with-polymorphism)
            -   [Introduce Null
                Object](/refactoring/introduce-null-object)
            -   [Introduce Assertion](/refactoring/introduce-assertion)
        -   [Simplifying Method
            Calls](/refactoring/simplifying-method-calls)
            -   [Rename Method](/refactoring/rename-method)
            -   [Add Parameter](/refactoring/add-parameter)
            -   [Remove Parameter](/refactoring/remove-parameter)
            -   [Separate Query from
                Modifier](/refactoring/separate-query-from-modifier)
            -   [Parameterize Method](/refactoring/parameterize-method)
            -   [Replace Parameter with Explicit
                Methods](/refactoring/replace-parameter-with-explicit-methods)
            -   [Preserve Whole
                Object](/refactoring/preserve-whole-object)
            -   [Replace Parameter with Method
                Call](/refactoring/replace-parameter-with-method-call)
            -   [Introduce Parameter
                Object](/refactoring/introduce-parameter-object)
            -   [Remove Setting
                Method](/refactoring/remove-setting-method)
            -   [Hide Method](/refactoring/hide-method)
            -   [Replace Constructor with Factory
                Method](/refactoring/replace-constructor-with-factory-method)
            -   [Replace Error Code with
                Exception](/refactoring/replace-error-code-with-exception)
            -   [Replace Exception with
                Test](/refactoring/replace-exception-with-test)
        -   [Dealing with
            Generalisation](/refactoring/dealing-with-generalisation)
            -   [Pull Up Field](/refactoring/pull-up-field)
            -   [Pull Up Method](/refactoring/pull-up-method)
            -   [Pull Up Constructor
                Body](/refactoring/pull-up-constructor-body)
            -   [Push Down Method](/refactoring/push-down-method)
            -   [Push Down Field](/refactoring/push-down-field)
            -   [Extract Subclass](/refactoring/extract-subclass)
            -   [Extract Superclass](/refactoring/extract-superclass)
            -   [Extract Interface](/refactoring/extract-interface)
            -   [Collapse Hierarchy](/refactoring/collapse-hierarchy)
            -   [Form Template
                Method](/refactoring/form-template-method)
            -   [Replace Inheritance with
                Delegation](/refactoring/replace-inheritance-with-delegation)
            -   [Replace Delegation with
                Inheritance](/refactoring/replace-delegation-with-inheritance)
-   [ UML](/uml)
    -   [Introduction](/uml/introduction)
    -   [Basic Principles and Background](/uml/basic-principles)
        -   [Introduction to the Case
            Study](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/introduction-to-the-case-study)
        -   [Models, Views, and
            Diagrams](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/models-views-and-diagrams)
        -   [Information Systems and IT
            Systems](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/information-systems-and-it-systems)
        -   [The Models of our Case
            Study](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/the-models-of-our-case-study)
        -   [History of UML: Methods and
            Notations](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/history-of-uml-methods-and-notations)
        -   [Requirement
            Specification](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/requirement-specification)
        -   [UML 2.0](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/uml2)
    -   [Modeling Business Systems](/uml/modeling-business-systems)
        -   [Business Processes and Business
            Systems](/uml/modeling-business-systems/business-processes-and-business-systems)
        -   [One Model---Two
            Views](/uml/modeling-business-systems/one-model-two-views)
        -   [External
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view)
        -   [The Elements of a
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/the-elements-of-view)
        -   [Use Case
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/use-case-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Use Case
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-use-case-diagrams)
        -   [Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/activity-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-activity-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/sequence-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-sequence-diagrams)
        -   [High-Level Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/high-level-sequence-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence Diagrams for Scenarios of Business Use
            Cases](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/sequence-diagrams-for-scenarios-of-business-use-cases)
        -   [Internal
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/the-internal-view)
        -   [Package
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/package-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Package
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/constructing-package-diagrams)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [Activity
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/activity-diagram)
    -   [Modeling IT Systems](/uml/modeling-it-systems)
        -   [External View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view)
        -   [The User View or \"I don\'t care how it works, as long as
            it
            works.\"](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-user-view-or-i-dont-care-how-it-works-as-long-as-it-works)
        -   [The Elements of a
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-elements-of-view)
        -   [Use Case
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-elements-of-view/use-case-diagram)
        -   [Query Events and Mutation
            Events](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/query-events-and-mutation-events)
        -   [Use Case Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/use-case-sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing the External
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/constructing-the-external-view)
        -   [Structural View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view)
        -   [Objects and
            Classes](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/objects-and-classes)
        -   [Generalization, Specialization, and
            Inheritance](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/generalization-specialization-and-inheritance)
        -   [Static and Dynamic Business
            Rules](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/static-and-dynamic-business-rules)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [The Behavioral
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view)
        -   [The Life of an
            Object](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/the-life-of-an-object)
        -   [The Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/the-elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Statechart
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/statechart-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Statechart
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/constructing-statechart-diagrams)
        -   [Interaction
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view)
        -   [Seeing What Happens Inside the IT
            System](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/seeing-what-happens-inside-the-it-system)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Communication
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/communication-diagram)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Communication
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/constructing-communication-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/constructing-sequence-diagrams)
    -   [Modeling for System
        Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration)
        -   [Terminology of System
            Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/terminology-of-system-integration)
        -   [Messages in
            UML](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/messages-in-uml)
        -   [One Model---Two
            Views](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/one-model-two-views)
        -   [Process
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view)
        -   [The Business System Model as
            Foundation](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/the-business-system-model-as-foundation)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/activity-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Diagrams in the Process
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/constructing-diagrams-in-the-process-view)
        -   [The Static
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [Transforming Data from the IT System to the Message
            \"passenger
            list\"](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/transforming-data-from-the-it-system-to-the-mess)
        -   [Transformation of UML Messages into Various Standard
            Formats](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/transformation-of-uml-messages-into-various-stan)



[ Log in](https://sourcemaking.com/login "Log in") [ Contact
us](https://feedback.sourcemaking.com/ "Contact us"){.userecho-public
rel="nofollow"}





[![SourceMaking](/images/content-public/logos/logo-min-xs.png?id=f4a48661fc32a3f349b76a075f28594c){srcset="/images/content-public/logos/logo-min-xs-2x.png?id=34fc05750336c33b7815e231a0f227df 2x"}](/){.navigation-brand}


[![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
Shop Now!](/store){.btn .btn-md .btn-primary .btn-featured}


-   [ [Contact us]{.caption .d-none
    .d-xl-inline-block}](https://feedback.sourcemaking.com/?show_feedback_form_private=true "Contact us"){.userecho-private
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [ [Log in]{.caption .d-none
    .d-xl-inline-block}](https://sourcemaking.com/login "Log in")
-   






-   [Design Patterns](/design_patterns)
-   [AntiPatterns](/antipatterns)
-   [Refactoring](/refactoring)
-   [UML](/uml)



-   [My account](/home)
-   [Forum](https://sourcemaking.userecho.com/){.userecho-public
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [Contact
    us](https://sourcemaking.userecho.com/?show_feedback_form_private=true){.userecho-private
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [About us](/about-us)










© 2007-2023 [SourceMaking.com](/)[ / ]{.d-none .d-md-inline}\
All rights reserved.



[Terms](/terms) / [Privacy policy](/privacy-policy)






